# PlotDigitizer
This package is used to extract X, Y values from 2D plots.

# Installation

Clone this repo to your computer and open the julia REPL. Navigate to the DigitizePlot directory and activate the environment by typing

```julia
julia> ]
```
 
 to enter the julia package manager and then 

```julia
(@v1.10) pkg> activate .
```

to activate the environemt. Following type 

```julia
(PlotDigitizer) pkg> instantiate
```

to download and precompile the correct versions of the needed packages. 

# How to Use PlotDigitizer

To digitize points from a 2D plot you need to call the ```digitizePlot()``` function which will open a new window. The needed input of this function are the boundary consitions of the X and Y axis, each as a ```Tuple``` as well as the path to the image to be digitized as a ```String```.

### Creating a Line of Points

Once the window has opened, you are free to click in the window to add points to create a line (left mouse button). This line is a list of points in the coordinate system defined by the boundary conditions of the axis. The coordinates of the new point will appear in the REPL.

### Deleting Points

If you misclick, you can remove the last point by holding the ```d``` key when clicking the left mouse button.

### Creating a New Line of Points

Multiple lines can be generated by holding the ```n``` key when clicking the left mouse button. The number of lines will be shown in the REPL.

### Switching Between lines

To switch between lines, hold the ```s``` key while clicking the left mouse button. The active line will be shown in the REPL and will have a different color than the other lines.

### Exporting Data

To export the values of the active line, hold the ```e``` key while clicking the left mouse button. The default name of the .csv file will be "digitized_data_line#.csv". The name can be changed as a keyword argument in the function.

### Ending digitalisation

To end the digitalisation, click the right mouse button. The main function is automatically terminated. However, the user is asked to close the GLMakie window to avoid changes in the last line. Afterwards, the user can either start from the beginning with another digitalisation or continue with something else. 
